5-8:
Present correct and efficient algorithms to convert an undirected graph G between the following graph data structures. You must give the time complexity of each algorithm, assuming n vertices and m edges.

a) Convert from an adjacency matrix to adjacency lists.

In an adjacency matrix is a square matrix wherein each dimension contains all n vertices. A cell is 1 if the two vertices are adjacent (i.e. connected by an edge), and 0 if not. An adjacency list can be represented as a hashmap, where the keys are the vertices and the values are lists of adjacent vertices.

Therefore, a possible algorithm:
Construct a hashmap, where the key will be the vertex and the value will be an array of adjacent vertices. Using nested loops, iterate through the adjacency matrix, creating a key for each vertex row and appending the column vertex in the value array for any cell that has a value of 1. The time complexity is O(n^2) and the space complexity is in the worst case also O(n^2), in the event each vertex is adjacent to every other, then each value array in the adjacency list will have n vertices.

b) Convert from an adjacency list to an incidence matrix. An incidence matrix M has a row for each vertex and a column for each edge, such at M[i,j] = 1 if vertex is is part of edge j, otherwise M[i,j] = 0.

Two vertices are called adjacent if they are connected by an edge. Two edges are called incident if they share a vertex. Also a vertex and an edge are called incident if the vertex is one of the two vertices the edge connects. 

Algorithm:
Initialize a matrix of n length. Iterate through the adjacency list. For each pair of adjacent vertices, create a column to represent the edge, and fill in a 1 for each of the two vertices at that column, and zero the rest. Before proceeding, delete the pair from the adjacency list from the other perspective (using the value vertex as the key), to avoid duplicates. Time complexity is O(n^2), assuming we first preprocess the adjacency list to dedupe it. Space complexity is m x n, since those are the dimensions of the incidence matrix.

c) Convert from an incidence matrix to adjacency lists.

Algorithm:
Iterate over incidence matrix. For each edge, iterate through the vertices and store each vertex that has a value of 1. Create keys for each vertex in the new adjacency list hashmap and store/append the value of the other vertex in the value array list. Time complexity is O(n^2), nested loop. Space complexity is O(n^2) in the worst case since each vertex may be connected to every other vertex.
